#What is ANTLR?
ANTLR stands for "ANother Tool for Language Recognition" (Created by Terrance Parr), as the successor to the Purdue Compiler Construction Tool Set (PCCTS, 1989). It is "a parser generator that can be used to read, process, execute, or translate structured text or binary files" (Parr).

##So what does it actually do?

Any language has rules for its structure called grammar. Naturally, a file containing those rules is called a Grammar file in ANTLR. So ANTLR will take that Grammar file and it will automatically generate a Lexer file and a Parser file in Java, all by itself.

##Why do you need a Lexer and a Parser file?

A lexer reads an input character or byte stream, divides it into tokens using patterns you specified, and generates a token stream as output. It can also flag some tokens such as whitespace, comments and ignores them using a protocol that ANTLR parsers automatically understand and respect.

A parser reads a token stream that is generated by the aforementioned lexer and matches phrases in the language you are working on via rules or patterns that you specified. THe matches you find could invoke a custom action, write some text via String Template, or generate an Abstract Syntax Tree for additional Processing
(https://theantlrguy.atlassian.net/wiki/display/ANTLR3/Five+minute+introduction+to+ANTLR+3)

#How do you get started working with ANTLR?
Most people use the Eclipse workspace because of its versitility as well as Maven in order to build their projects. So here are the steps to set up working with ANTLR using Eclipse and Maven:
   1) Download (latest version) or open Eclipse workspace.
   2) Right click on blank space in Package Explorer-New->Other->Maven Project->click next->Create a simple project(skip archetype selection-> next-> Create your Group Id, Artifact Id, finish.
   3) now find your pom.xml file at root folder level and open it. You need to put in some special artifacts inside to make your project work with ANTLR.
   4) You'll have a rather baren pom.xml file so you may need to create a "dependencies" section and then find the appropriate ANTLR dependency like seen here: https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.antlr/antlr-runtime/3.5.2
**Please note, you'll need to find the most recent version when beginning your project. This was just an example

NOW, your project is set up and you are ready to begin working on your first grammar.

##1) Creating your first grammar
So you know what a grammar is and why its needed, now lets take a look how to create your first most basic grammar for you to get a better understanding how to make your own.

    a) You need to create a directory for the grammar. In src/main/resources, create a document, a new file. Call it hello.g4.
The g4 is an extension meant for grammars.

   b) Start off with the header: ```"grammar hello;"```

   c) Now, inside, we will define what are called rules inside the grammar. Do the following:
```
r : 'hello' ID ; //match keyword hello followed by an identifier
```

   d) Now, traditionally, when you write an identifier like that (Usually in all-caps), you need to define it somewhere below. Lets do that:
```
ID : [a-z]+ //this means it matches any lower-case identifiers, if you are familiar with regex
```

   e) Since you are making a pattern matcher, its natural that you don't want to match spaces, tabs, new lines, or returns. So we need to write something called a skip rule. If you've used something like JavaCC before, you'd write it as "SKIP". ANTLR is a little different:
```
WS : [ \t\r\n]+ -> skip ; //skip spaces, tabs, newlines, \r (windows)
```

So lets take a look at the full grammar now:
```
grammar hello:
r  : 'hello' ID;
ID : [a-z]+ ;
WS : [ \t\r\n]+ -> skip ;
```

   f) once your grammar is fully written, right click -> Run As -> 1 Generate ANTLR Recognizer
In your folder "target/generated-sources/antlr4" (where the generated resources will appear), you'll find that you suddenly have at least a Parser and a Lexer file. ANTLR generated these classes for you. We're not done yet. This is cool, but how do you test it?

##2) Creating a test class
I will break down what each line of the example test class:

```
// import ANTLR's runtime libraries
import org.antlr.v4.runtime.ANTLRInputStream;
import org.antlr.v4.runtime.CommonTokenStream;
import org.antlr.v4.runtime.tree.ParseTree;

// import ANTLR's generated Lexer and Parser classes
import sample.one.pkg.HelloLexer;
import sample.one.pkg.HelloParser;

public class HelloTester {
	public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {

		// create a CharStream that reads from standard input
		ANTLRInputStream input = new ANTLRInputStream(System.in);

		// create a lexer that feeds off of input CharStream
		HelloLexer lexer = new HelloLexer(input);

		// create a buffer of tokens pulled from the lexer
		CommonTokenStream tokens = new CommonTokenStream(lexer);

		// create a parser that feeds off the tokens buffer
		HelloParser parser = new HelloParser(tokens);

		ParseTree tree = parser.r(); // begin parsing at init rule

		System.out.println(tree.toStringTree(parser)); // print LISP-style tree
	}
}
```

All you have to do is run this tester class in eclipse and enter "hello" in the console.
